-------------------------------------------------------RPS-------------------------------------------------RPS-----------------------------------------RPS----------------------
Below is a sample requirement document outlining the key components and specifications for such a project:

Hash Cracking in Python Requirement Document

Project Overview

Purpose
The purpose of this project is to develop a Python-based tool for cracking hash functions. 
This tool will be capable of brute-force and dictionary-based attacks to recover plaintext passwords from hashed representations.

Scope
This project aims to provide a command-line interface (CLI) for hash cracking, supporting various hash algorithms and attack methods. 
The tool should be extensible and user-friendly, allowing security professionals and penetration testers to assess the strength of passwords and hash security.

Functional Requirements
1. Hash Algorithm Support
The tool must support the following hash algorithms:
    'blake2b', 
    'blake2s', 
    'md5', 
    'sha1', 
    'sha224', 
    'sha256', 
    'sha384', 
    'sha3_224', 
    'sha3_256', 
    'sha3_384', 
    'sha3_512', 
    'sha512',
    'crc32',
    'Adler-32',
    'xxHash'
    'bcrypt' (optional)
2. Attack Methods
The tool must implement the following attack methods:

Brute-force attack
Dictionary-based attack

3. Input Handling
The tool should accept the following inputs:

Target hash to be cracked
Dictionary file for dictionary-based attacks (optional)
Password length range for brute-force attacks (optional)
Custom character set for brute-force attacks (optional)

4. Output
The tool should provide the following output:

Cracked password (if successful)
Success/failure status
Time taken for the cracking attempt

5. User Interface
The tool should provide a command-line interface with clear usage instructions and help documentation.

6. Extensibility
The tool should be designed in a modular and extensible manner, allowing for the addition of new hash algorithms and attack methods in the future.

Non-functional Requirements

1. Performance
The tool should be capable of efficient hash cracking, with the ability to process a reasonable number of hashes within a reasonable time frame.

2. Security
The tool must not store or log any passwords or hashes used during the cracking process. It should adhere to ethical hacking guidelines and ensure user privacy.

3. Compatibility
The tool should be compatible with Python 3.6 or higher.

4. Error Handling
The tool should provide meaningful error messages and gracefully handle exceptions to prevent crashes.

5. Logging
The tool may optionally support logging for debugging and auditing purposes.

Constraints

This tool is intended for ethical hacking and security assessment purposes only. It should not be used for any illegal or unauthorized activities.
The tool should not be designed to facilitate password cracking for malicious purposes.

Dependencies
The tool may use third-party libraries such as hashlib for hash algorithms, argparse for command-line parsing, and any additional libraries as needed.

Milestones and Timeline
Define project milestones and estimated completion dates.

Documentation
Provide detailed documentation on how to install, configure, and use the tool.

Testing
Define test cases and conduct thorough testing to ensure the tool's functionality and security.

Maintenance and Support
Outline plans for ongoing maintenance and support, including bug fixes and updates.

Conclusion
This requirement document outlines the scope and specifications for developing a Python-based hash cracking tool. 
It serves as a guideline for the project's development and should be referred to throughout the development lifecycle.

